---
title: "Brewery Pi Naming Recommendation"
date: 2017-12-01 19:17:13 -0800
---

# Brewery Pi Naming Recommendation
First if there is any terminology in this post you to not understand, check out [this S88 post](http://brewerypi.com/2017/11/29/S88.html). We have some recommendations for naming that we have found useful as the system grows and more is added to it.
## Abbreviations
We recommend using abbreviations for enterprise, site, area, element, and even parts of tag names.  This keeps your tag names unique but also manageable in length. Brewery Pi has a specific field for abbreviations for enterprise, site and area.  With elements, in the name field we recommend using an abbreviation; the description field can be used to spell out the element name. In the tags name field, we recommend using abbreviations down to the property level, see the property section S88 post at the link above for more detail on property naming. There are a few key points for abbreviations:
* Have a document where you track the definitions of abbreviations in alphabetical order, be vigilant about updating it, and make sure brewers and any other system users know where to find it
* Try to use your abbreviations in as many systems is possible; if you can manage to standardize naming between business systems, warehouse systems, maintainance systems, and production systems, then you will make things easier as more of that data comes together. Tell others about your naming system and encourage them to check it out and contribute.
* Only have one definition for a given abbreviation; even if the defined items are not closely related or are in different areas
* Do not have abbreviations with the same letters but different cases; in fact, we recommend using all capital letters for abbreviations
* Try to use the same abbreviation for all similar items, regardless of level or area; for instance a bottle filler would have the same abbreviation as a can filler because the bottling and canning process cells would differentiate the two
* Try to keep abbreviations to three letters or less, ideally one or two letters is best to keep tag names from getting too long
* Use numbers in addition to the letters to make sure you can add more of any type of equipment as your brewery expands; see the section below for more on numbering
* When combining abbreviations from the various S88 levels to create a unique name tag or element name, use a separator other than a space to avoid possible integration issues with other systems; see the section below for more on separators
* Here are a few examples of abbreviations we use just to get you started:
  * FV: Fermentation Vessel
  * BB: Bright Beer Tank
  * FLR: Filler
  * LT: Lauter Tun
  * P: Pump
  * V: Valve
  * FI: Flow Indicator
  * TI: Temperature Indicator

## Numbering
As mentioned above numbering ensures you will not have to use multiple abbreviations for multiple pieces of similar equipment. We recommend following the abbreviation directly with the instance number with no spaces in between (LT1 for Lauter Tun 1). In these documents, if referring to a general element that has multiple intances, we will designate the number or numbers used with a capital X (LTX for Lauter Tun X). One very important thing to think about when numbering is that in many systems, when you order by name, you need multi-digit numbering in order for the names to be sequential. For example, typically you would order the numbers 1, 2, 3, 10, 15, 23 like this if doing it numerically. However, when a computer organizes these as strings, it does it alphabetically and numerically one character at a time, so the computer's order would be 1, 10, 15, 2, 23, 3. This is obviously not so intuitive for a brewer! Following these key points will help avoid confusion:
* Unless you are 100% sure that you will only ever have 1 of an item in the area, process cell, or site where it needs to be unique, then apend a 1 to its abbreviation: you probably only have one kettle in your main brewhouse, and you are probably pretty sure you will never add a second one, but it has happened before, and so we would recommend calling it KT1 instead of KT.
* If you do end up putting in a second similar element to one that does not have a number, then do not use the number 1, and instead go to 2 (have KT and KT2); for integration reasons it is often nice to have equal characters in abbreviations, so you could go back and rename KT to KT1 at this point, but depending on how many places and systems that abbreviations is used in
* If you think you may ever have more than 9 of an element then use two-digit numbering; cellar tanks are a good example: we would recommend calling your first fermenter FV01, then FV02, on up to FVXX. Even if you do not have 9 fermenters right now, chances are as you grow you will have at least that many; however, it is unlikely that you will ever have more than 99 fermenters at a given site, so two-digit numbers are a good bet.
* If you are likely to have more than 99 of something, then three digit naming is a good call (001, 002, ..., XXX); more than 999 of something, four digit, etc. Generally the only spot we use three-digit-or-higher naming is with control modules, because we number those uniquely for each site, no matter what type of module they are. Depending on your chosen naming standard, this might be different for you.
* Clearly there is judgement involved here, but the key is to consider carefully, and if you are unsure and will be close, go with the extra digit.

## Separators
As mentioned in the abbreviations section, we recommend not using spaces as a separator when stringing abbreviations together to make tag names.  This can just add complication with integrations to various other systems that need special syntax to be able to deal with a space in a name. Of course, other symbols can be problematic for certain systems too, so here are some key points:
* The underscore ( _ ) is the most innocuous separator; we do not know of a system that needs any special syntax to deal with it, and it also looks very similar to a space.  This is our recommended separator, and the Brewery Pi system uses it by default for any abbreviations that it strings together automatically.
* The dash ( - ) is also an excellent choice when considering separators, again, we are unaware of any system that would have a problem with it.  Of course, when coding it is the sign for subtracting, but using it in the middle of a string will not typically cause any problems.
* Why even worry about multiple separators, if underscore works, why not just use it for everything? That is certainly an option, but sometimes you can use a different separator to draw attention to a part of a tag name. We often do this between the rest of the tag and the property portion.  Again, the property is the part of the tag that users are typically looking for, and even though it is at the end of the tag name, having an alternate separator can help draw the eye to it. This is part of the reason we also recommend camel case and no abbreviations for this part of the tag; it helps draw the eye to the poperty and read it quickly.  However, as mentioned in the S88 post, you may still use some common abbreviations in the property portion of the tag, and you may decide you want to use a separator in a property portion of a tag to emphasize part of it. Unique separators can also be helpful to parse tag names in certain systems, quickly using cade to extract a portion of the tag name. Whatever the reason, you may find that in certain situations it is useful to have some other separators.
* Some slightly less-good, but still fairly harmless separators are the back and forward slash, the period, and the pipe ( \ , / , . , &#124; , the last two are especially nice because they take up very little horizontal space, and so can shorten the visual length of a tag). These characters are used as separators that indicate a folder in a path to an item in quite a few systems, but often if you do have to work around them, there is fairly simple syntax to do it. The pipe is commonly used to indicate an "OR" statement in coding languages, but usually that is indicated by two pipes in a row ( &#124;&#124; ), so typically having it in a tag name will be OK. If there are a couple systems that you run into that really do not deal well with these symbols, you can always replace them with another symbol in those systems; as long as you know which systems and what the replacement character is, then you can still compare or transmit information between tags; it is only a small increase in complexity.
* We would recommend avoiding any other separators, as they are often used in systems as wild cards or operators in functions that specifically deal with strings, so you may cause extra headaches when coding with tag names. All these might be tempting, but we would recommend not using them as any part of a tag name: ( % , ! , ? , , , ' , " , : , ; , * , { , etc.).

## Putting It All Together
Who thought tag naming would be so complicated? The key is by taking into account these considerations from the start you can create clear and unique tag names that can be uniform across lots of technology systems, which will make your life much easier in the long run. To put it all together, we recommend using all the S88 levels up to the site level in every tag name; to be really thorough, you can also include the enterprise level. From left to right, start with the most general level, and then get more specific. Here are some key points:
* Brewery Pi automatically strings together enterprise, site, and area abbreviations with underscores and can append them to tag names, so in your tag naming for Brewery Pi, you only have to go up to the process cell level.
* Some of the S88 levels are optional; if you do not use them, then leave them out of the tag name.  However, the higher up you go the nicer it is to have a consistent length to the tag name, so if choosing not to use a process cell for intance, you may instead decide to have a process cell that is named identically to the area, and repeat that abbreviation (visually, if listing a lot of tags, this can help the eye line things up, and code-wise, if parsing tags it can be helpful to have them more similar in structure). You can also just choose to use process cells for everything (probably best).
* As mentioned in the S88 article, when putting information on operator screens, you will often not use the whole tag name in order to keep things shorter and more manageble for brewers; you will just put the control module name, and units and equipment modules with only enough of their tag names to make them unique (say FV01, or BH1_LT1), but for tag names, which often will not be displayed directly to users in full but need to be consistent and unique, go for longer names with specific and consitent parts across all tags.
* Finally, some examples. For abbreviations, we will use the abbreviations listed above, plus EP1 for Enterprise 1, B1 for the Brewery 1 site, BH1 for the Brewhouse 1 Area, CL1 for the Cellar 1 area, and PG1 for the Packaging 1 area. For process cells we will have a JV Northwest brewouse that we will abbreviate as JV1; in the cellar, we will have a process cell (or tank group) for fermentation vessels and one for bright beer tanks, which we will abbreviate as TG1 and TG2, repectively; and we have a bottling line process cell, BO1. Here are examples to get you started:
  * EP1_B1_BH1, EP1_B1_CL1, and EP1_B1_PG1 are the first parts of the tag names to the area level, which will automatically compiled by Brewery Pi, and can be automatically appended to tag names when the full name is needed, so I will not include these parts in any of the tag names now that I have illustrated them.
  * JV1_LT1_P0304-SP: The set point of pump 304 on the JV brewhouse lauter tun
  * JV1_LT1-BrewNumber: The brew number of the brew in the JV brewhouse lauter tun
  * JV1_LT1-FirstRunningsPlato: The specific gravity in degrees plato of the brew in the JV brewhouse lauter tun
  * JV1_LT1_FI0311-PV and JV1_LT1_FI0311-Total: The process value (current reading) and total accumulation of wort in the JV brewhouse flowing from the lauter tun to the kettle (if you had no flow meter, you could still include the runoff amount as a manually entered property from a graduation line in the kettle: JV1_LT1-RunoffVolume)
  * TG1_FV12_TI1201-PV: The current temperature of the probe 1201 on fermentation vessel 12
  * TG1_FV09-Plato: The specific gravity in degrees plato of the fermenation in fermentation vessel 9
  * TG2_BB03-Brand: The brand in bright beer tank 3
  * TG2_BB15-V6504-SP: The set point of the glycol valve for bright beer tank 15
  * BO1_FLR1_TI8021-PV: The current temperature in the bottling filler bowl
  * BO1_FLR1_FI8001-Total: The total volume of beer sent to the bottling filler for the current run
  * BO1_FLR1-RunRate: The run rate of the bottling filler (units for this would most likely be bottles per minute)
  * BO1_FLR1-Status: The status of the bottling filler (running, idle, alarm, etc.)
